---
layout: default

---

# A few examples of TeX-rendered equations

A fundamental law in electromagnetism is **Gauss's law**, stating that the
*divergence* of the electric field is proportional to volume charge density,
namely:
{% eqn %}
\nabla \cdot \vec E = \frac{\rho}{\epsilon_0 \epsilon_r}
{% endeqn %}

Where {% ieqn \vec E %} is the afore-mentioned electric field, {% ieqn \rho %}
is the volume charge density, {% ieqn \epsilon_0 %} is the electric permittivity
of vacuum and {% ieqn \epsilon_r %} the relative electric permittivity of the
environment in which the subjects evolve.

We recall that *divergence*, denoted {% ieqn \tdiv \vec v %} or using nabla
notation {% ieqn \nabla \cdot \vec v %}, serves to quantify the intensity of a
flow generated by that vector in a vector field, or in other terms the outward 
*flux* of a vector field from an infinitesimal volume around that vector.

Gauss's equation is rarely of any use _as is_; fortunately, as we evolve in a
Banach space, and because most objects can be considered _compact_ and with
(piecewise) smooth boundaries, we can apply the infamous **Ostrogradsky's
theorem**:
{% eqn %}
\iiint_V \nabla \cdot \vec E \dd{V} = \oiint_S \vec E \cdot \vec n \dd{S}
{% endeqn %}

Where *V* is the volume emitting the electric field (or *enclosing* the electric
charge), *S* is its surface, and {% ieqn \vec n %} is a unit normal to that
surface.

A detailed proof for this theorem is available [here](/proof.html)

If we denote by *Q* the total charge contained within volume *V*, we note that
the left hand side of Ostrogradsky's equality becomes
{% eqn %}
\iiint_V \nabla \cdot \vec E \dd{V} = \frac{Q}{\epsilon} 
{% endeqn %}

It follows that, in fact, **the electric flux through a surface is
proportional to the electric charge enclosed by this surface**.

This means, in particular, that an object placed in an electric field but that
does not contain a charge, has a null total flux, i.e. the incoming and outgoing
fluxes balance each other.

# HOW DID THEY DO THAT!!!

That beautiful Ostrogradsky's theorem corresponds to the following code:
```latex
\iiint_V \nabla \cdot \vec E \dd{V} = \oiint_S \vec E \cdot \vec n \dd{S}
```

You may have noticed that I use `\oiint` (for integration on closed surface),
which is available in the `esint` LaTeX package. No worries! I can include it as
an extra package in `_config.yml`:
```yaml
texeqn:
  ...
  extra_packages:
    - name: "esint"
```

What about this `\dd` command? You've never seen _that_ before, isn'it?

Well it is part of my custom header:
```yaml
texeqn:
  ...
  extra_head: |
    \newcommand{\dd}[1]{\text{d}\!#1}
    \newcommand{\tdiv}{\text{div}\:}
```

How do I get block equations to be centered and scaled properly? By asking the
renderer to put custom classes!
```yaml
texeqn:
  ...
  blockclass: "equation img-div"
  inlineclass: "inline-eq"
```

It's so easy I can't believe it's not butter (or something like that).



